All right, and we are back.
So now we know where the internet
came from, why it's called "the internet"
and what the F we are doing when we type in
HTTP and WWW into our browsers
to get to our Pinterest boards.
Trust me, soon we will be out of the woods
and into way more complicated stuff.
So right now just enjoy the relative simplicity while it lasts.
So what does the rest of the browser
mean and where am I getting
my information from when I upload a photo of my cat to iCloud?
To explain this, let's go over some softballs
and learn some easy concepts.
First off, you need to know the difference between
three terms as they relate to computers.
These, I guarantee you, you will use and hear.
They are three things: client, node, and server.
Ok, so let's say I'm using a computer
to download a Kindle book from Amazon.
In this scenario, my computer is what we call a client,
as it's the device in a transaction
receiving the information, and whatever
machine in Seattle that stores the book
and is now sending it to me is then called the server.
Any machine that book crosses through to get
to me from its origin point is called a node.
Now, earlier when I said two LAN networks connected together
through an intermediary forms what is essentially the internet,
that intermediary I just referenced would be considered a node.
Keep in mind, these terms are just relative.
You might think "But I thought a machine called a server,
and it said server on the box when I bought it,"
you might think that that's a server.
Well, yeah, it is most likely, and they most likely call it that
because it's designed to store and send information.
But if I decided to upload information, let's say,
from my computer to that server,
guess which one technically now, in this new
arrangement, is called the server?
If you said the server in the box, no,
you're wrong, it's the computer.
The server in this instance then
flips roles and it's called the client.
If I transferred information from my phone to my computer,
guess what my phone would be called?
It would be called a server. It serves the information.
It's kind of confusing, and I suggest
you don't think about it too much.
It's just an important set of terms you'll
need to know and it will help you eventually.
What you do need to know is that the internet is made solely
of those three pieces we just went over:
clients, servers, and nodes.
In the vast majority of cases,
information stored on a large machine
is on request transferring information to
your laptop - server transferring to a client.
In most cases that is just purely simple enough.
Want to watch a movie on Netflix, well,
Netflix has a big server you connect to
and it transfers that data from their
big old server to your computer.
But what exactly happens in the middle of that transfer?
Well, a bunch of nodes happen.
For the sake of your sanity, you only really need
to understand three nodes in this process.
The first one is what's called an Internet Service Provider,
also called an ISP in cool tech lingo.
The second one you need to understand is what's called a modem,
and the third one you need to understand is what's called a router.
For all intents and purposes, just think about it this way.
Information, every time you request it and you receive it,
it must pass through these three things to get to your computer.
So let's start with the first one.
What is an Internet Service Provider
in this weird web of relationships?
Well, I guarantee you interact with one and you probably
have at least a mild dislike for the one you use.
Internet Service Providers, like Comcast, or Time
Warner, or actually even, back in the day, AOL,
are essentially mega hubs for distributing and
connecting computers across the country.
But what exactly, as an entity, do they do?
Well, let me explain it by explaining
how the internet used to work,
and then it will make more sense.
Let's say, back in the day, you wanted to
get the news from your local CBS news station.
Well, in order to do that, you would
need to connect a physical line
to that CBS news station, from your computer.
What if you wanted to transfer a music file to your friend
down the street without Metallica suing you?
Well, you would need a physical cable running to their house.
At some point in the internet's
development, several large companies
all kind of came to the same conclusion
that it's materially impossible
to connect every single house to every single house,
so it actually made more sense if
we created one big hub that's local
that everyone connected to instead, and
then to connect the hubs to each other,
you don't have to have as many wires.
That process cost money, and after all,
it's millions of dollars in new lines
that have to be put in the ground, and
that's what the inexplicable charge
on your monthly credit card statement is from.
True story, back in the day, some neighborhoods
would actually pitch in together
to buy cable lines and to make their
own little happy neighborhood hub.
Anyway, ok, so that is the first node
that you need to understand.
ISPs, or that company you probably hate.
The second node is that thing that keeps blinking
in your house and you have no idea what it's doing.
That thing is called your modem.
With pretty much everything in this course,
there are a million things I could tell you,
but there are not a million things you need to know.
A modem is a very complicated piece of equipment,
but you don't need to know how it works basically.
A modem is just a device that is permanently connected to your ISP,
and is used to send and receive information through your ISP hub.
When your internet goes out, it's often just
the modem, since it's the intermediary,
just acting up, it is not that the internet has dried up,
* Oh I'm going to sit down with that
internet and just start emailing *
contrary to what some people believe.
All right, you made it so far?
That is the second node,
and there's only one more we have to tackle.
This last piece is the compliment to
your modem, and it's called the router.
I bet you didn't even know the difference between the two.
Oh, you did? Yeah, no, you didn't,
you don't work for Comcast.
The router is merely the hub that allows all
devices and systems in one area or room
to connect to the same connection through the modem.
You don't need a modem for every single
computer you own, you just need one router.
The router in most cases today is
what takes that internet transfer
and then transfers it through that
magical wavelength called WiFi.
But, remember, you can always still connect
directly to the router with a cord in a pinch.
Routers do exactly what they sound like, they route traffic
so that multiple devices can use one permanent
connection with an Internet Service Provider.
So a modem just acts as a bus that
transfers information from your ISP,
and then converts it from your coaxial - you know
that circular cord you use to actually
plug into your TV, that's what they use - to something
that's actually usable by your computer.
It's also effectively the bouncer to both
your computer and your Internet Service Provider.
It regulates what connects through it and who gets access to what.
Modems are pretty effective at least, hence why most hackers
try to compromise the router piece instead.
Ok, I know that's a ton of information, but let's recap it.
When you want to download a web page what exactly happens?
Well, the information you request is stored somewhere on a server,
most likely owned by the company you're trying to access,
or by a web host that owns tons of servers
and then leases it out to companies,
that information is then transferred
to an Internet Service Provider,
which is a company you most likely pay a monthly fee to
that is in charge of acting as a hub between
all of the devices and cables in your local area.
From there, it transfers it to your home,
first through the modem,
and then through the router to get to the right device.
And it does all of that, what I just
described, in well under a second.
I'm really sorry if that was boring or tedious, but guess what?
You never have to learn that again, because now you know.
Next lecture, we're going to add more
layers to our understanding
and start getting into how servers and computers
know where to send and request their information.
If you're not excited by that, well, you're ...normal.
All right, see you then!